It all started when I read an article from
[Sweta Vajjhala's blog](http://www.blog.swetavajjhala.com/?p=387)
about how to track your goals. The idea is that you come up with 101
things that you want to accomplish in about two years. You write those
goals down, then come up with a list of tasks for each goal. The first
task in each goal should be something you can take action on _right
now_, so that you could pick from any goal on any day and start making
progress on it.

[![](images/101in1001_desktop_thumb.png)](images/101in1001_desktop.png
"Desktop version of the site")

The main problem with this idea, is that you will presumably have a
list of 101 things that you can do _now_. It can be hard to keep track
of what task goes to what goal and how to organize those goals into
overarching themes. So, I did what any good hacker would do, make his
own!

The application allows you to create a list of goals, and link each
one to a "Category" that the goal falls into. When you look at your
goals, you can then see each goal neatly indented under the category
it is in. When you start filling out each task for the goal, you can
set it as "current", which means it will go into your master task
list. The task list then shows you all your current tasks, which you
can complete by selecting "done".

I made this app in python/Django with a SQLite DB backing it. It just
runs on my local machine. However, I like to see my Goals and tasks
while on the go, so I made a special mobile-version that allows me to
see goals and tasks from my Nexus S.
